this video was made possible by
curiosity stream when you sign up at the
link in the description you'll also get
access to nebula the streaming video
platform that hii is a part of hello
everyone and welcome to a half's
interesting episode where we'll be doing
something a little different
talking about planes now listen up
because this episode is serious I'm not
playing around except for that one pun
which helps me keep a flight tone okay
I'll stop now any more puns and I'll
seem like a real cockpit to understand
what you're about to hear we need to
talk a bit about the history of planes
the planes are flat two-dimensional
geometric surfaces that were first
described by the Greek mathematician
Euclid around 300 BC in his seminal text
element oh you know what sorry just now
realizing that that's the wrong type of
plane classic mistake about that guys
and a little bit out of my comfort zone
with this whole planes thing let me try
again the first successful airplane
flight was in 1903 but it wasn't until
after world war ii in the 1950s that
planes really you know took off which
means an airplane in 1926 when our story
takes place was like a man but in 2007
there were a few people who had them but
they were far from widespread and with
that in mind let's begin in 1926 a man
named William mcpoyle hired a pilot to
steal a waco airplane in Ottawa Illinois
and flanked agumon Oklahoma after the
plane had been stolen mcpoyle then
instructed the pilot to take a similar
airplane that mcpoyle actually owned and
swap it with the stolen airplane to try
to confuse the police the pilots
attempted to do that but crashed
probably because planes in 1926 again
like man buns sucked so much like the
owner of a manland should be mcpoyle and
the pilots were arrested and McCoy was
convicted in federal court of violating
the National motor vehicle theft Act
specifically he was convicted of section
3 of the Act which outlaws quote
transporting or causing to be
transported in interstate or foreign
commerce a motor vehicle knowing that
same to have been stolen after he was
convicted
mcpoyles lawyers filed an appeal in
which in a truly galaxy brain level
argument they claimed not that their
client didn't steal the airplane not
that he didn't take it across state
lines but that he had done both those
things yet
didn't matter because an airplane isn't
a motor vehicle the appeals court said
they were wrong and so the lawyers
appealed to a group of out-of-touch old
people wearing robes no not that one
this one the Supreme Court miraculously
not only took the case but said that
they agreed writing for the majority
justice Oliver Wendell Holmes claims
that quote in everyday speech vehicle
calls up the picture of a thing moving
on land and in his conclusion said that
Congress probably meant to include
airplanes somewhere in there law but
possibly because airplanes were still
pretty new it seemed they had forgotten
he wrote quote the statute should not be
extended to aircraft simply because it
may seem to us that a similar policy
applies or upon the speculation that if
the legislature had thought of it very
likely broader words would have been
used and so the newly-crowned Lord of
loopholes William mcpoyle went free so I
guess the moral of the video is find a
new invention like fidget spinners and
steal as many of them as possible before
Congress makes a law about it yep that
seems like it definitely wold backfire
all right bye whoa whoa whoa there's Sam
not so fast
oh hello Devlin from legal eagle what
are you doing here and how can you hear
me well Sam I'm here because I'm your
lawyer and I can hear you because I
bugged your office to make sure that you
weren't doing anything illegal wait but
isn't [__] my office illegal uh you
know Sam why don't you leave the lawyer
ring to me that's what you pay me for I
don't remember ever agreeing to pay you
well Sam if that were true how do you
explain the jet ski I just bought with
10% of your ad revenue um you know what
let's just talk about this later the
point is I still don't understand why
you're in my video well Sam I'm here
because you just gave your audience some
incredibly bad legal advice you see
William mcpoyle did break the law just
not federal law which is what he was
initially convicted of stealing anything
is illegal whether it's a wallet or a
plane or ten percent of someone's ad
revenue but the generic law that says
you can't steal stuff is a state law not
a federal one the reason is that federal
law only covers the stuff that the
Constitution allows and the Congress has
actually gotten around to addressing
everything else is left to the states
they have what's called plenary
authority but back in the 1920s Congress
was preoccupied with
100% following prohibition that they
hadn't gotten around to making a plane
stealing law so there was no federal law
for a mcpoyle to be charged under by the
way this is a great example of a canon
of construction or theory of statutory
interpretation called Houston generous
which means of the same kind or class
the law here mentioned other kinds of
transport and could have mentioned
aircraft but it didn't so rightly or
wrongly we assume that legislators
actually know what they're doing when
they draft laws even if those laws do
something dumb like forget planes exist
if the statute of limitations had run
mcpoyle could have been convicted under
grand larceny in illinois because
there's no such thing as a free plane
but there is such thing as a free
subscription to nebula which is exactly
what you'll get when you sign up for
curiosity stream curiosity stream is of
course the documentary streaming service
with thousands of top quality films
including originals by people like Jane
Goodall David Attenborough and even
Stephen Hawking and nebula is the
streaming service started by all your
favorite educational creators c2b gray
minutephysics me even devon from legal
eagle who you might remember from you
know 30 seconds ago because we figured
that people who like documentaries might
also like the stuff we make we came
together to offer a great deal when you
sign up for an annual subscription to
curiosity stream which is only twenty
dollars a year you'll also get a free
annual subscription to nebula all you
have to do is go to curiosity stream
comm slash hii and sign up to any one of
their subscriptions